But, who knows, what we (with doubles partner Martina Hingis) can do together. It would be great to win another Slam. she told PTI here.
Sania said 2015, during which she bagged two Grand Slams, and eight other titles with Martina Hingis in a dream run, is particularly special because of the number of wins.

"It's not just about the year. My whole career has been amazing. Last few years have been really good. It so happened that in one year, we have been able to dominate the court. Too many things have happened. That s very good. It's the contribution of many years. The hard work, the sacrifice that has gone in from the family, the people and the media, everyone who has been with me," she said.
The complementary efforts made by her and her partner and Swiss legend Hingis is a major reason for their success, she said.
"Also the fact that me and Martina, we complement each other well. We play well together. We get along on and off the court. We just try to better ourselves every time we step on the court," she said.
Noting that competition would be tough as they begin the next season, she said she and Hingis would try to change their game should the need arise.
"Hopefully, we won't need to (do something differently).
But, next year, we are going to come more prepared because all the other teams would be more prepared as well.. because they also, so to say, are trying to crack that code to how to beat us. We have not lost in a long time. So, every time, we step on the court, we feel we are hunted. We feel the pressure is on us. But, pressure is a privilege. We feel very honoured to be in this position. As and when needed, we will try and change what we can," she said.
Sania also said she would do her best to win a medal in the Rio Olympics though there cannot be any guarantee of a medal in sport.
"There is no assurance in sport . We will do whatever we can to try and win a medal. If we don t, life goes on. If we do, it would be dream come true, she said.
The 29-year-old said she feels that a lot of tennis is still left in her and that she would take a call on playing tennis year by year.
"I don t know. I take it year by year. I am going to play. I feel healthy, happy and content and I feel I have a lot of tennis left in me. So, I am going to play next year. I will take a call year after year. I am looking forward to next year," she said.