Indian's largest private sector lender, ICICI Bank  , will be selling 6 percent stake in its joint venture(JV) ICICI Prudential Life Insurance and 9 percent stake in its general insurance arm. In an exclusive conversation with Shereen Bhan, ICICI Bank's managing director & chief executive officer Chanda Kochhar said that the primary aim of these two deals were to establish the right value for the businesses. Furthermore, she agrees that the stake sales in its insurance businesses certainly strengthens the bank's balance sheet. Below is the verbatim transcript of Chanda Kochhar's interview with Shereen Bhan on CNBC-TV18. Q: What was the rationale behind this divestment? A: Our primary aim of doing both these deals was to really establish the right value of the assets that we hold because we have been investing in these group companies for over 12 years now and we are past the stage where we were in the investment mode, now each of these companies are actually generating good profits, good returns for us and the bank is the holding company. Until you create a proper valuation benchmark, that does not really get reflected in the bank values and the primary purpose really was to create that proper valuation benchmark so that there is a fairer assessment of the underlying values. Beyond this I would say that if you look at both the deals, together they give us, even just these small stakes, give us a profit before tax (PBT) almost close to Rs 3,400 crore. Given how the tax shields are, indexation and so on and so forth, maybe in access of about Rs 3,000 crore of PBT. So any profit strengthens the balance sheet. I think that is the way to look at it. Whether it will be used for A purpose or B purpose or so on, we have not even decided that to a large extent, let the profits come first. Q: Would it be a fair assumption that it will go towards provisioning on account of the stressed assets? A: As I said, we have been making the fair amount of provisioning that is required anyway irrespective of these profits. So I think we have to treat that as a separate bucket. This, one, it establishes a proper benchmark for the entire value that ICICI Bank holds. Secondly, yes indeed it strengthens the balance sheet; how and which way we use it, we will take that call when the profits can actually be booked after all the approvals. Q: How long do you envisage the approvals to take? A: It should be the next quarter. We should be able to do it in the next quarter. Q: Since you were talking about getting a sense of the value as far as these businesses are concerned at the 9 percent stake sale in the General Insurance it gives you a valuation of about Rs 17,225 crore and for the Life Insurance side it works at to about Rs 32,500 crore happy with those valuations? A: Yes, I think they are very fair and healthy valuations. In fact in that sense better than the benchmarks that have been created in the past. I guess these reflect therefore the market leadership of these companies that they have established in their respective fields and the sound business models that they have created. Q: Let me ask you specifically as far as the Life Insurance side is concerned. Is this going to be the precursor as far as your possible IPO is concerned and also you have the headroom to go upto about 49 percent, Prudential continues to be at 26 percent even post this transaction? Are they not keen on hiking their stake or have those conversations not started just yet? A: I think establishing an external benchmark actually in fact even helps Prudential to establish that kind of a valuation benchmark for their investments. So, that is how you have to look at the first step. From here on all options are further also open to us whether it is an IPO or any other option. However, I would say that right now there is no immediate next step in the offing.