TVS Motor Company today elevated Sudarshan Venu as the joint managing director and Lakshmi Venu as the additional non-executive director of the company.

Both are the children of chairman and managing director Venu Srinivasan.

“As the whole-time director of the company, Sudarshan Venu has been actively participating in the activities of the company and has considerably increased his engagement in and contribution to the progress of the company. Under the circumstances, the board of directors of the company has appointed him as its joint managing director,” TVS Motor said in a statement to the stock exchanges.


Sudarshan (24), who has been a whole-time director since February 2013, will function under the advice and guidance of Srinivasan, the company added.

He was inducted into the board of Sundaram Clayton, the holding company of TVS Motor, as an additional director in September 2011.

Sudarshan completed his graduation in 2010 from the University of Pennsylvania. He holds a master’s degree in International Technology Management from the Warwick Manufacturing Group, an academic department at the University of Warwick in the UK.

In a filing with the bourses, the company said his appointment for the remaining period of his tenure was without any change in the terms and conditions and remuneration.

TVS Motor added that the appointment of Lakshmi Venu as an additional non-executive director was aimed at strengthening the board. She will serve as the woman director on the board in compliance with the provisions of the companies act and the listing agreement.

Lakshmi is the daughter-in-law of Infosys co-founder N.R. Narayana Murthy. She is married to Rohan Murthy.

Both these appointments will be effective from today.

The board of Sundaram Clayton also decided to give Lakhmi additional responsibilities to explore business opportunities and expansion, both on the domestic and global fronts.

She had been on the board of Clayton since 2010 as director-strategy in the rank of managing director and her term ends in March next year.