The Latest: Canadian PM Trudeau slows down Syrian refugee resettlement for security concerns.
ZAGREB, Croatia (AP) — The latest on the mass movement of asylum-seekers and others seeking refuge in Europe. All times local:

6:40 p.m.

Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau says he has slowed plans to settle 25,000 Syrian refugees within months to allay people's security concerns after the Paris attacks.

Trudeau had wanted to resettle 25,000 refugees in Canada by Dec. 31. On Tuesday, his Liberal government said Canada would resettle 10,000 Syrian refugees by the end of the year and another 15,000 by the end of February.

In London on Wednesday, Trudeau said last week's deadly gun-and-bomb attacks in Paris, claimed by the Islamic State group, had changed "the perception that Canadians had."

He said people who were previously supportive of the refugee plan "had a few more questions. And we realized that the most important thing is to be able to reassure Canadians that absolutely everything is being done to keep Canadians safe."

___

3:15 p.m.

Norwegian police have advised citizens to carry valid identity papers on all trips abroad, following a government decision to start border controls on Thursday.

The Police Directorate says Wednesday all travelers arriving or leaving the country, including to and from neighboring Sweden, Finland and Denmark, must have valid ID on them. The police agency also says people moving about in border regions should also carry proof of their identity.

The new regulations were announced after Sweden said it's tightening border controls because the refugee situation was getting out of control. They also apply to Nordic citizens who have enjoyed passport-free travel for decades.

Immigration officials estimate Norway can expect more than 33,000 refugees this year, a threefold increase over 2014.

___

10:25 a.m.

U.S. Vice President Joe Biden is attending a summit of southeast European leaders that focuses on tensions in the region over a surge of asylum seekers and migrants crossing the territory.

Biden's trip Wednesday comes amid a debate in the United States about whether to admit Syrian refugees following the Islamic State group's attack in Paris.

Administration officials say security and humanitarian constraints are concerns for the leaders, with as many 5,000 migrants reaching Europe each day over the so-called Balkan migrant route.

The vice president will also meet with European Council President Donald Tusk to discuss the migration crisis, the fight against terrorism, the Russia-Ukraine conflict, energy and trade.

Biden will also attend bilateral meetings with Croatian and other leaders to discuss the response to the refugee crisis, energy and economic ties.