Tie Domi attends as many Coyotes games across North America as he can. He has seen Max play at Madison Square Garden, where Tie played two and a half seasons for the Rangers and famously fought Bob Probert in 1992. Tie saw Max score early in his first game and in an Arizona victory at Air Canada Centre in Toronto, where, at 46, the elder Domi still has rock star status.

“I feel blessed I am stopped everywhere I go in Canada, especially in Toronto,” said Domi, who played for the Maple Leafs for 12 seasons.

Domi gained popularity by being an agitator. It is a role that has come under increased scrutiny in recent years as hockey, like football, has grappled with the effects of concussions. Lawsuits brought by former players have claimed that the N.H.L. hid the dangers of repeated head trauma and promoted violence on the ice.

Domi addresses the culture of fighting and his past as an enforcer in a recently released memoir, “Shift Work,” which is a best seller across Canada.

“There’s been a dark cloud over fighting,” Domi said. “I wanted to write about life lessons and life values, treating people how you want to be treated. I wanted to utilize my platform and turn it into a positive.”

Domi devoted a chapter in the book to Probert, describing the circumstances of their memorable fights and eventual friendship. A renowned enforcer, Probert died of a heart attack in 2010 at age 45 and was later found to have chronic traumatic encephalopathy, a degenerative brain disease caused by repetitive hits to the head.

Four other former N.H.L. players are known to have had C.T.E. Another enforcer from Domi’s era, Todd Ewen, committed suicide in September at 49, and his brain was donated to a concussion study.

“They went through the mental and physical part that I did in that job,” Domi said of writing about the players he had fought. “Unless you did the job, you really can’t speak the language. Only the guys who did the job can understand the mentality of what you go through. And how you handle it.”