The draws for the first and second qualifying rounds of the UEFA Champions League and Europa League, which took place in Nyon on Monday, determined the opponents of the Bulgarian teams participating in the top two European tournaments.
Bulgaria's reigning football champion Ludogorets will start from the second qualifying round of the Champions League, where it will face the Moldovan team of Milsami Orhei.
Milsami Orhei, which claimed the Moldovan championship title this season, will make its first appearance in the European Cup.
The first leg is scheduled to take place in Razgrad on July 14/15, while the second one will be in Moldova on July 21/22.
In case Ludogorets proceeds to the third qualifying round, the team will learn its next opponent at the draw, which is scheduled to take place on July 17.
At the same time, more than a hundred teams learned their fate as the largest draw in the history of the Europa League took place.
Beroe and Litex will begin their participation from the first qualifying round of the tournament, while the holders of the Bulgarian Cup – Cherno More will start directly from the second round.
Cherno More will face Dinamo Minsk from Belarus, Beroe will play against Atlantas Klaipeda from Lithuania, while Litex will face Jelgava from Latvia.
In case Beroe proceeds to the second qualifying round, it will face the winner from the encounter between Brondby (Denmark) and Juvenes/Dogana (San Marino).
In case Litex qualifies for the second round, it will face the winner from the encounter between Flora Tallinn (Estonia) and Rabotnicki (Macedonia).
Both Beroe and Litex will be visitors in the first leg, which is scheduled to take place on July 2, while the two Bulgarian teams will be hosts in the second one a week later on July 9.
Cherno More will be a host in the first leg of the second round, which is scheduled to take place on July 16 and will play away a week later on July 23.
- See more at: http://www.novinite.com/articles/169399/Champions+League%2C+Europa+League+Draws+Determine+Opponents+of+Bulgarian+Teams#sthash.SrmvasLh.dpuf