Next summer’s Copa América Centenario soccer tournament, which will feature 16 teams from North, South and Central America and several of the world’s best players, will take place in 10 American cities.

The metropolitan areas named as hosts by organizers on Thursday will give the tournament a national feel: Boston, New York, Philadelphia and Orlando in the East; Chicago and Houston in the Midwest; and Phoenix, Los Angeles, San Francisco and Seattle on the West Coast.

The effect is that the Copa América Centenario could serve as an important test run for U.S. Soccer, one of the organizers, as it prepares a possible bid to host the World Cup in the United States in 2026. Bidding for that tournament is expected to begin next year after it was delayed amid the ongoing FIFA corruption scandal.

Continue reading the main story
RELATED IN OPINION

Carli Lloyd of United States celebrating her third goal against Japan during the first half of the FIFA Women's World Cup in June.Op-Ed Contributor: FIFA Needs More WomenNOV. 19, 2015
The Copa América, the world’s oldest international soccer championship, doubles as the South American championship and has always been held on that continent. But in 2014, officials from the region’s two soccer confederations — Conmebol in South America and Concacaf, which governs North and Central America and the Caribbean — joined U.S. Soccer in announcing a special Centenario tournament to mark the event’s 100th anniversary.

Continue reading the main story
Sports Newsletter
Get the big sports news, highlights and analysis from Times journalists, with distinctive takes on games and some behind-the-scenes surprises, delivered to your inbox every week.


Continue reading the main story
RELATED COVERAGE

Sepp Blatter will remain suspended from his job for now.Sepp Blatter and Michel Platini Lose FIFA Appeals and Remain SuspendedNOV. 18, 2015
Police officers on patrol outside Barclays Center in Brooklyn on Tuesday for a game between the Nets and the Atlanta Hawks.Arena Security Reviewed After Paris Terror AttacksNOV. 19, 2015
The field next summer will include the 10 Conmebol members from South America as well as four teams from Concacaf — the United States, Mexico, Costa Rica and Jamaica — and two other winners of regional playoffs: Trinidad and Tobago versus Haiti and Panama versus Cuba.

The complete list of sites next summer includes: Gillette Stadium, Foxborough, Mass.; MetLife Stadium, East Rutherford, N.J.; Lincoln Financial Field, Philadelphia; Citrus Bowl, Orlando, Fla.; Soldier Field, Chicago; NRG Stadium, Houston; University of Phoenix Stadium, Glendale, Ariz.; Rose Bowl, Pasadena, Calif.; Levi’s Stadium, Santa Clara, Calif.; and CenturyLink Field, Seattle.

Three of the stadiums are home to teams in Major League Soccer, which confirmed Thursday that it was considering pausing league play for part of the tournament. Another issue is that about half the stadiums have artificial turf playing surfaces which, while approved for use by FIFA for international matches, are traditionally replaced by grass for top-level matches (though not, memorably and controversially, for last summer’s Women’s World Cup in Canada). U.S. Soccer said Thursday that it would install grass in all stadiums for the Copa América.

The tournament will be played June 3-26, setting up a full summer of top-lever soccer. The 2016 European Championship will be held in France from June 10-July 10.